# South Asian Genome Diversity

This is our repository containing all links and materials relevant to our work on investigating the diversity in and the representation of South Asians in genomic datasets.

This repository will contain links to all talks, posters and papers relevant to this work, as well as the analysis scripts and tools used in this project.

As of March 2025, we are putting the final touches on a manuscript for this work! In the meanwhile, we have linked past posters about this work below.

## Repository Layout

All links relevant to this project (manuscript, past posters, workspaces and workflows, and data we generated) can found in the "Links" section of this README.

In the `wdl` folder, you can find all relevant WDL files used throughout our pipeline for aligning input reads, extracting unmapped reads, assembling and filtering the unmapped read contigs, placement against reference genomes, intersection with annotated regions and other `.bed` files, and any other miscellaneous scripts. These WDL files are divided into the relevant subfolders.

In the `scripts` folder, you can find any relevant Python notebooks and analysis scripts from local or cluster analysis.

## Links

Our Anvil workspace can be found [here](https://anvil.terra.bio/#workspaces/anvil-dash-research/south-asian-genome). Most of our larger analyses were carried out on Anvil, and the scripts used can be found here, as well as the data generated by our work.

The supplementary tables referenced in the manuscript can be accessed [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1b2c1Xycqyr8_DPuFImsXIWtEAZlALJjy?usp=sharing). These tables include details of all genes intersected by the SAS and non-SAS placed contigs, and the top BLAST results of the unplaced contigs and the high scoring RNA-alignment contigs.

Full size versions of all figures used in the manuscript and supplement can also be found in the same [folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1b2c1Xycqyr8_DPuFImsXIWtEAZlALJjy?usp=sharing).


## Past Presentations and Posters of this work

[BIODATA 2024 Poster](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1b5QrxCZGZ1VqBroGnVwDCJPVRb6DikzO/view?usp=sharing) - shown at the Biological Data Science 2024 Meeting @ CSHL

[GI 2023 Poster](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sMByc7kWJl9ipy14WLtpWlJ2mlwt0hOc/view?usp=sharing) - shown at the Genome Informatics 2023 Meeting @ CSHL.

[ASHG 2023 Poster](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1N4YAV44Velab-i63iTrwN8bNHwAhO975/view?usp=sharing) - shown at the ASHG 2023 Meeting @ Washington DC.

## Contact

If you're coming here from my poster, and want to leave a comment/note for me, please do so using the following form: [Arun Das SA Genomes Contact Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1rbrBBXTupyRSqqrBFbuvgqbC6mOgn53jzAnOVLSAfxY/)

Otherwise, please send me an email or open an issue on this repository.

Thank you!
